[MUSIC PLAYING]
ROB DODSON: Hey, everybody.
What's up?
It's Rob Dodson.
Welcome back to Polycast.
So today on the
show, we're going
to be wrapping up our tour
of Polymer and Firebase
by taking this project
that we've been working on
and integrating it with
the polymer-build library
so that we can build
it for production.
So follow me over
here to my laptop.
And we're picking up where
we left off last time.
So we've got this
project that we created.
We can go ahead and maybe start
up our server so we can just
like preview this thing.
OK.
So when we go to
our terminal here.
We can run Firebase serve.
Here, I'll embiggen this
a bit so you can see it.
Firebase serve.
Then I'll start
up a local server
just so we can see
what we're working on.
OK.
So this is where we
left off last time.
We had this kind of
like to-do list thing
that we were building.
It kind of looks like
a mess right now,
because we added messaging.
We added a bunch of
other weird stuff to it.
So the design is like
totally wacky, but whatever.
It has the features that we
want for our application.
And today, we're
just going to cover
how we bundle all the code
together so we can launch it up
onto Firebase hosting.
In my project, the first
thing I'm going to do
is I'm going to create a Polymer
in JSON file, Polymer.json.
And inside of this
file, we're going
to tell Polymer's build
library about the entry points
to our application, about
our application shell,
and about any other sort
of like extra dependencies
that we want to package
up for our build.
So I've gone ahead and actually
just saved this puppy out,
and I'll bump this up
a little bit so you
can see what we've got here.
So we've got this entry point,
which is our public index HTML
file that just tells
polymer-build, hey,
this is where we're
going to start our app.
And then we've got our
shell, which if you recall
is our my-app element.
So everything that we've
been working on so far
has been kind of
contained within my-app.
Now, if you are using
something like the PRPL pattern
and you had
additional fragments,
you could add to this
Polymer JSON as well.
So those would be
views that you were
like lazy-loading over time.
In our case, inside
of my-app, we've
actually just got
all of our views
just displaying right here.
So we've got my log in,
my notes, my subscription,
et cetera.
So we don't have any fragments
or anything like that.
We're just going to
tell it about my-app,
and it'll bundle that up.
And then the last
field that we have here
is our extra dependencies.
So these are things
which we're not
referencing as HTML imports,
so Polymer itself is not
referencing these things.
But these are files
that we do know that we
need to include in our build.
We want to make sure
they get copied over.
So this is things like
our manifest.json,
the Firebase Messaging service
worker, which we talked about
in our last episode, and our
webcomponents-lite polyfills.
So we're going to tell it
to copy these over as well.
So that will instruct
the polymer-build library
what to copy.
The next thing we want to do
is create a package JSON file
and actually install a
polymer-build itself.
So make a package.json and we'll
just pop some stuff in here.
So I just called it
my-project for now.
You can name it after
whatever you want, give
it whatever version you want.
We're going to include a
little NPM build step here.
So I'm just going to
include a build step that's
going to run gulp for us.
And we'll get to
that in just a bit.
The main thing we
care about, though,
are these devDependencies
down here at the bottom.
So a few items that
we're going to pull
in, we're going to
pull in this library
called del, which will allow
us to sort of like clean up our
build directory every time
we're about to do a new build.
We'll pull in gulp,
and notice that we're
using version 4 here.
And then these last two,
merge-stream and plylog,
these are just for
debugging polymer-build
as you're using it.
Or merge-stream is for
merging your streams.
Plylog is for debugging.
And polymer-build, we're going
to pull in the latest alpha
version, which is 0.6.0-alpha.
Probably by the time you're
watching this episode,
0.6 will be out already.
But I wanted to go
ahead and use it now
because it's a little bit easier
to use than previous versions
of polymer-build.
So we've got that ready.
We're going to run NPM install.
And I've actually already got
all these things installed
in my node module,
so we don't have
to wait for it to
download or anything.
The next thing we want to
do is create a gulpfile.
So we make gulpfile.js.
And what I'm going
to be doing here
is I'm going to be using gulp
and the polymer-build library
directly instead of
using polymer-cli itself.
Now, if we used
polymer-cli on this project
and we just ran
polymer-build, it actually
would do a pretty good job
of building everything,
but it's going to create
some additional things,
like a service worker, and
it's going to kind of put it
in sort of a weird
place, because right now
polymer-build-- the CLI service
worker's not programmable
for the output directory.
That's something that they're
going to probably change
in a future version of the CLI.
So we don't have these like
weird vestigial files laying
around and stuff
like that, we're just
going to use
polymer-build directly,
and we're going to
tell it exactly what we
want it to build.
So we're going to do that
inside of this gulpfile.
And I've actually gone ahead
and pre-written this gulpfile,
because there's a fair
bit of code in here.
We can walk through
these piece-by-piece
just so you sort
of like understand
what is going on here.
At the top of our
gulpfile, we're
just pulling in a
few items that we'll
need for doing work like
setting up our paths,
pulling gulp,
merging our streams,
deleting files, and
things like that.
This is all sort of like
typical boiler plate.
Where it gets interesting
is when we get down
here to like polymer.json.
So we're actually going
to require polymer.json.
We're going to pull in
our polymer.json file
so that we have it in gulp.
We're going to pull in
the polymer-build library,
and we're going to pass
it our polymer.json file
when we instantiate it.
So that way, it has
some configuration.
And then we're going
to tell it that we
want our build directory
where it outputs everything
to be build/bundled.
So this is going to
take everything that's
in our public
directory right now
and put it in
build/bundled/public.
Flash
Then I have to find this
littler helper here,
because the gulpfile that
we're going to create
is going to be maybe a little
atypical from most gulpfiles
that you've seen.
It's going to be basically
one build function that's
going to have a promise
chain, and there's
going to be a few
places where we're
going to wait on some
streams from polymer-build.
So we've got this waitfor
function right here.
All this does is it
returns a promise
and it listens for a
stream's end or error event
and either resolves or
rejects the promise.
This is going to be very
helpful for our build function.
And then inside of the
build function itself,
we're going to kick
off polymer-build.
Now, the polymer-build library,
if you recall from our episode
on writing your own generator
using the polymer-build library
and the custom
generator init function,
polymer-build library takes
all of your HTML imports,
it looks at the CSS in them,
it looks at the JS in them,
it looks at the HTML and
it extracts each of those
into its own file stream.
And you can run transformations
on those streams.
So if you want to
do CSS modification,
you want to do JavaScript
uglifying or something
like that, you can after it
has split apart those streams.
And then once you've
done those transforms,
it rejoins everything for you.
So what we're going
to do is we're
going to start off by
calling this del function.
We're going to delete
the build directory.
If there's already
something inside of it,
we'll just clean it out
so we can start fresh.
And then we're just going to
work through a little promise
chain.
So we're going to create
a source stream using
the polymer-build library.
What it's going to
do is it's going
to look at our entry
point for our application.
It's going to look at
that my-app HTML file,
and it's going to figure
out all the HTML imports
that it references and it will
treat all of those as sources.
So I'm going to create
a stream for that.
We're going to tell
it to split the HTML.
That's how we create the CSS,
the JS, and the HTML streams.
And here is where
you can run any sort
of transforms you want to do.
So for instance, if you were
using something like Uglify,
you could then pipe one of
those streams to Uglify.
You would use the
gulp-if library
to check the file extension.
So if it's a JavaScript
file, pipe it to Uglify.
If it's a CSS file,
pipe it to css-slam.
HTML pipes to
html-minifier, et cetera.
So I'm going to
comment these out
for now, because I don't have
these libraries installed just
yet.
But I'm going to
leave these here,
and when I put the
code up on GitHub,
these will be here for you.
So if you want to add your
own gulp transforms, you can.
So that'll be all
of our source files.
And then we've also
got a separate step
where we work through
all of our dependencies.
So this is stuff that's living
in like bower_components
or whatever.
If you want to uglify
those or css-slam those,
you can as well.
So that's going to create
two streams, sources
and dependencies.
And then we're just going to
merge the two streams together.
We'll have a little
console log here as soon
as we start getting
some data out
of the stream that just
tells the user, hey,
we're analyzing these streams.
If we want to do
bundling, we can pass it
to our Polymer Project Bundler.
So we're going to pipe all those
streams into Polymer Project
Bundler.
That's what's going to
go through and basically
run vulcanize on your behalf
and start to put everything
into the my-app file.
You can do additional
things here, too,
like if you wanted add prefetch
links and stuff like that,
you could explore doing that
with your own transforms.
And lastly, we're just
going to take everything
and we're going to pipe
it to the build directory,
which if you remember
is build/bundled.
We set that up at
the top of the file.
And then we're just going to
use this waitfor helper function
to wait on the build stream.
So after it's done
processing all of our files,
this promise will resolve.
And we can move down to the very
last step in the promise chain
where we're just going
to console log out
to the user, hey,
everything is done.
We'll resolve that
one last promise,
and then that's it
for our gulp task.
That's our entire build
process for our Polymer site.
The last thing to do
is just to set this
as our default
build step for gulp,
and we should be
off to the races.
So let's open our sidebar here.
And let's give it a shot.
So we'll open our
terminal up, and we
will run-- I've got to make this
a little bit bigger-- so we're
going to run gulp.
Or because I added in
my package.json file,
I added a build script, we
could also run npm run build.
Either one of those should work.
So we run that, and
we should start seeing
those console logs coming out.
So it's deleting
the build directory.
It's analyzing our
build dependencies.
Then it tells us the
build is complete.
We go back to our text editor.
And we look at our
build directory.
You can see now we've got--
inside of build/bundled,
we've got all of
our project files.
It copied over things like
our Firebase Messaging service
worker, because we added
that to extra dependencies.
And if you look at my-app.html,
you can see that it sort
of munged all the
code into this file.
So it ran vulcanize
for us, which is great.
The last thing we can
do is we can preview
this using the Firebase server.
The one change we
need to make there
is we'll go to firebase.json.
For hosting, we'll
tell it that we
want to look at
build/bundled/public.
Save that.
Go over to our terminal.
So we'll run firebase
serve, and it'll
tell us that it's serving
build/bundled/public.
Click on localhost5000.
And here you go.
Here is our bundled project.
And we can verify that it's
the bundled version by opening
our network panel, clearing
everything out, hard
refreshing the
page, and you'll see
that instead of requesting like
tons and tons of HTML imports
for all of our dependencies,
we only really see
a couple of HTML imports.
I think we actually only
see my-app.html Looking
at the source for that,
we can verify that it is
the vulcanized version.
So at that point, the only
thing you have left to do
is to run Firebase
deploy and your site
is ready to share with
the rest of the world.
So that about
covers it for today.
If you have any questions on
using Polymer and Firebase,
as always, you can leave them
for me down in the comments
or hit me up on a social
network of your choosing.
As always, thank you
so much for watching,
and I'll see you next time.
Hey, folks.
What's up?
It is Rob.
Thank you so much for
watching this episode.
If you'd like to see some
more, we've got some over there
in the playlist.
And as always, you can click
the little subscribe button
to keep getting
content every time
we push it up to the channel.
Again, thank you so
much for watching.